All right.
Here we go.
Let's implement the training operations.
So we're going to make a series of functions before we get to that final loss function because indeed
the formula is quite complex so we're going to split that into several steps.
And the first thing we're going to do here is just get a special number which results from a complex
operation.
But that special number is something around 0 point ninety two point ninety four.
We'll check that right away.
And this special number is just the luck of the square root of two times by.
So we're going to put that number into a variable which we're gonna call luck s q r t two pi which as
we've just said is going to be equal to the following formula.
The lug which I'm getting things to known pi num pi lug that's a function by num PI of the square root
which again I'm going to get thanks to none pi and P that R T.
Another function by name by of as we said two point zero times pi which again we're gonna get through
num by with M P that P I.
Here we go.
And that's just the number I would like to get which is of course part of the last function that we're
going to use to train our DNA on it and let's just check that if my memory is all correct if we execute
this.
Here we go we have our luck.
Square root 2 Pi.
And now let's just select this that execute again.
And here we go.
Yes.
0 point ninety two.
Right so that's a special number which is part of the last function.
And speaking of the last function well we're not ready to get it yet.
I would like to do an intermediary step which is to compute another formula which will include that
look square 2 pi in which we're going to include inside a new function you know like this one here which
we're gonna call def T F lug normal.
All right.
So we're making it because it is not part of the Tentacle tools right now for the tenth floor version
we're using.
And therefore we have to make this formula from scratch ourselves.
And so this function is going to take three arguments.
The first one is the target which will go here just as an argument y but then which will be later on
the target in the MDA and training.
Then the second one is one of the parameters of the NBN which is going to be the mean.
So we're just going to input mean here as the name of the argument and then the third one is going to
be another of the MDL coefficients or parameters which will be the log FTD.
And actually we will keep that name for the argument log FTD.
All right.
And now inside the function we're just simply going to include that major part of that last function
but which will still not be the final does function but it will be indeed the big part of the computation
which is like a log normal distribution.
And so that big operation well let's return it directly it is going to be minus open five times a fraction
which will be first at the numerator why the target minus the mean divided by the exponential which
will get from tensor flows to f that exp exponential curve.
Well that empty and parameter the lug SSD.
All right then we're gonna take the square of all this and to do this we just need to add here a double
star then too.
And then finally we have to subtract the low FTD and subtract again well that special number which we've
introduced before the log square root of 2 Pi.
All right.
So pasting that here and here we go that's the major part of the less computation which we're going
to include now and a final function which will be that loss function itself.
And so I'm introducing a new function here def and we're going to call that less get less function get
less func which will take for argument's first one will be of course one Indian parameter which we haven't
used yet in this big operation which is of course the outlook makes mixing coefficients.
And so that's our first argument here lug mix.
So this is just the name of the argument.
But then of course will input the real variable for that outlook mix.
Then the next two parameters are going to be the other two empty MTM parameters which are the mean and
the low as 2D.
And then finally well why here in the T F look normal function that we've made ourselves which is the
target.
So we're simply going to call it.
Why now and then we'll introduce a new viable or that target.
And so here we go for the final round of that loss function.
So I can already start to tell you what is going to be the final operation of that last function.
Well it is going to be minus the mean which we're going to compute thanks to math reduce mean which
I prepared for you again math reduced mean minus the mean of the lug of the sum of the exponential of
the lug mix variable plus that operation here.
Right.
The elements resulting from the operations here.
So no worries we will write that in several steps.
So the first step is actually to get this outcome here resulting from this formula and we're going to
put that outcome in a local variable which I'm going to call Ft.
So V equals.
Then we're gonna call that function T F like normal and actually also its arguments because we used
the same names for the arguments that get lost function so copying this and pasting that here.
Then remember I told you that the elements of which we're taking the lug of this summit exponential
are actually that plus the lug mix right.
These are going to be the elements inside that lug some exp.
Right.
And therefore now we're ready to take again that T F reduced lug some X function.
So taking that again and just below Well we're still going to call that V because we're just updating
this local variable and so here we go.
I'm pasting again that T F reduce look some X taking as arguments the same one first the elements of
which we're computing the log of the sum of the exponential which we called V you know exactly what
we had here.
Those are the elements inside this big lug of the sum of the exponential operation then remember we
have to specify the axis and as usual we are making this operation long.
The observations you know the rows of the horizontal axis which has an X one and then remember again
since we're using the alias on a deprecated version.
Well we have to take again that argument and not keep its default value of none but true.
So copying this again and based that here.
All right.
So almost there we have one final step before we get the final outcome of the loss function which is
remember to take the mean of all this or more specifically minus the mean of all this and therefore
since we're ready to return the final outcome well we can end this function with a return.
And then as we said it's going to be minus the mean of what we've just computed which we're gonna get.
Thanks to this math reduce main function or more precisely the areas T F that reduce me.
Right so I'm taking this and pasting the final outcome here.
The mean of the.
And congratulations you made this pretty complex last function which indeed we had to compute in several
intermediary steps.
Right.
It's easier to do it this way it's more clear and not too overwhelming.
All right.
And now so now that we have our function ready let's get the final less and to do this we're gonna have
to call that get lost function with the right arguments.
So we already have three arguments we have to lug mix which we've prepared here.
Outlook mix as a result of the Get em the inchoate function.
And we also have the mean again still as another output resulting from the get and the encoder function
out mean we also have the lug LCD again the third element the third and parameter resulting from the
split of the output.
But we don't have yet.
Why.
Which is I remind the target.
And so that's exactly what we're gonna get right now.
We're gonna get that target which we're gonna call inside a new viable flat target data.
All right.
And together.
Target Well we're gonna have to do another reshape.
Remember that we already prepared something for the target.
It was I remind this output X which we have prepared thanks to a sensible place holder.
And so we're gonna take that place holder again output X and even we're going to take self that output
X because this flat target data meaning this Y in the get lost function is going to be that output X
but just a little bit reshaped and the way it's going to be reshaped is by doing the following.
First we're going to call of course the reshape function by tens of floaty f that reshape inside which
we're gonna do something different this time.
The first argument is going to be of course what we want to reshape which is this output x so that output
X that place holder we prepared for the target and then exactly as what we did here we're going to reshape
that with the following format.
With that minus 1 which will flatten some dimensions but here it's not going to be of course HP has
that on insights going to be a full flattening because we're just going to input one and I'm going to
show you the before and after the reshape.
So I'm taking this basically here inside the reshape function as the second argument and here as we
said it's going to be a simple one for you know how we group the elements resulting from that reshape.
And so now let's see what the new target becomes.
So first we're going to execute this but because of the self I can execute that here to see the shape
because it is inside of function.
So that's why you know I prepared this aren't and values Python implementation which contains all the
values of the engine on it.
And so here we go.
Now I can select this just output X and execute.
And here we go.
We have the shape.
So it is a 3D tensor.
So that's the original shape of the target we prepared before.
It is a 3D tensor of remember 100 samples in this first dimension of the batch 1000 frames which are
the successive frames to learn the time related dependencies happening in the game and more specifically
these are the reconstructed frames resulting from the V and then 32 for.
Remember the output seq width.
And so that's the original shape and now what happens after the.
So we have to scroll down a bit and find that flat target data.
Here it is.
So I'm going to first execute this.
Here we go.
And now I'm going to execute only this flat target data.
Now let's see the new shape it is going to be as we've just said you know a full flattening of all the
elements one by one with therefore three million and two hundred thousand rows that result indeed from
the multiplication of 32 times 1000 times 100 because it was indeed a full flattening along one dimension
one single dimension.
And of course one column because indeed all the elements in the 32 elements of the output in all the
1000 frames were constructed frames of the sequence length of all the 100 samples of the batch where
grouped one by one and flattened into this one single one dimensional vector which can be seen as a
vertical vector.
All right so once again you clearly see what we're doing here with all the reshapes and now now that
the reshape is done we can move on to the next step here which is to finally call that get lost function
because indeed now we have all the arguments ready to be input inside this get lost function that is
going to give us the final us.
All right so.
Well here we go.
Let's copy this and we'll just replace the right names of the arguments.
So since this get lost function returns the final loss.
Well we have to introduce a new void bill which will contain that final death and which therefore will
call loss func and that variable is going to be the result of the get loss function which is going to
take as arguments of course the parameters of the empty end plus that target which would be here.
So let's put the right names of these variables which we've already prepared.
The first one log makes we call that actually out log mix.
Then second one the mean and the Indian parameters we called that out mean and then again the log as
the we call that out log city and why the target we just call that flat target data.
So I'm copying this basing that year and here we go.
Of course let's remove the Colin perfect.
So that gives us the last function but now to get exactly the less.
Which is also called cost.
Well we have to more precisely get the mean of that outcome.
You know that outcome returned by the get lost func function.
And so to finish this well to finish the big first part of the training operations because then we'll
have to introduce our optimizer.
Well we're going to introduce a new variable which will be exactly the final less error or also called
cost and which as we said is going to be the mean which again we get by sense of flow right and flow
that reduce mean of that loss func variable which is the result of that get lost func function.
All right.
And now we can move on to the final part of the training operations with you know the introduction of
the learning rate the optimizer and then of course we're going to apply the gradients from the optimizer
exactly as what we did for the V.
But of course now let's take a little break and let's do that final part of the training operations
in the next soil.
And so until then enjoy a.